# 7z 
## chatgpt 
7z is a command line utility that is used for compressing and decompressing files. It is a part of the open-source file archiver and compressor software, 7-Zip.

The syntax of the command is as follows:
7z [options] <command> [<switches>...] <archive_name> [<file_names>...]

The options and switches can vary depending on the command that is used. The basic commands for 7z are:

1. create: This command is used for creating a new archive file. The syntax for the command is:
7z create [-t<archive_type>] [<options>] <archive_name> [<file_names>...]

2. extract: This command is used for extracting files from an existing archive. The syntax for the command is:
7z extract [<options>] <archive_name> [<file_names>...]

3. list: This command is used for listing the contents of an existing archive. The syntax for the command is:
7z list [<options>] <archive_name> [<file_names>...]

4. update: This command is used for updating an existing archive by adding or removing files. The syntax for the command is:
7z update [<options>] <archive_name> [<file_names>...]

Overall, 7z is a very useful command for compressing and decompressing files, and it provides a lot of options and flexibility to users. 

## tldr 
 
> File archiver with a high compression ratio.
> More information: <https://www.7-zip.org>.

- [a]dd a file or directory to a new or existing archive:

`7z a {{path/to/archive.7z}} {{path/to/file_or_directory}}`

- Encrypt an existing archive (including filenames):

`7z a {{path/to/encrypted.7z}} -p{{password}} -mhe=on {{path/to/archive.7z}}`

- E[x]tract an archive preserving the original directory structure:

`7z x {{path/to/archive.7z}}`

- E[x]tract an archive to a specific directory:

`7z x {{path/to/archive.7z}} -o{{path/to/output}}`

- E[x]tract an archive to `stdout`:

`7z x {{path/to/archive.7z}} -so`

- [a]rchive using a specific archive type:

`7z a -t{{7z|bzip2|gzip|lzip|tar|zip}} {{path/to/archive.7z}} {{path/to/file_or_directory}}`

- [l]ist the contents of an archive:

`7z l {{path/to/archive.7z}}`

- List available archive types:

`7z i`
