# aws cur 
## chatgpt 
The AWS CUR command stands for "AWS Cost and Usage Reports". It is used to enable, configure, and manage Cost and Usage reports in AWS. Cost and Usage reports provide detailed information about the costs and usage of services in an AWS account. 

The AWS CUR command can be used to perform the following tasks:
- Enable CUR: This command enables the Cost & Usage Report service.
- Configure CUR: This command is used to configure the reporting preferences, such as the report name, format, billing period, and S3 bucket where reports are to be delivered.
- Manage CUR: This command is used to manage access to the reports and delete reports generated by the service.

The syntax of the AWS CUR command varies depending on the task being performed. For example, to enable the service, the command typically looks something like this:

```
aws cur enable-costs
```

To configure reporting preferences:

```
aws cur put-report-definition --report-definition file://CURConfigFile.json
```

To manage reports:

```
aws cur delete-report --report-name CURReportName
```

Overall, the AWS CUR command is a powerful tool that allows users to gain detailed insight into the costs and usage of their AWS services, helping them to better manage and optimize their spending. 

## tldr 
 
> Create, query, and delete AWS usage report definitions.
> More information: <https://awscli.amazonaws.com/v2/documentation/api/latest/reference/cur/index.html>.

- Create an AWS cost and usage report definition from a JSON file:

`aws cur put-report-definition --report-definition file://{{path/to/report_definition.json}}`

- List usage report definitions defined for the logged in account:

`aws cur describe-report-definitions`

- Delete a usage report definition:

`aws cur --region {{aws_region}} delete-report-definition --report-name {{report}}`
