# b3sum 
## chatgpt 
b3sum is a command-line utility that generates checksums (cryptographic hashes) for one or more files. The b3sum command calculates hashes using the BLAKE3 algorithm, which is known for being efficient and secure. 

Here's a breakdown of the command:

b3sum [OPTIONS] [FILES]

- b3sum is the name of the command.
- [OPTIONS] are additional settings you can specify to modify how the command runs. For example, -r can be used to generate checksums recursively for all files in a directory.
- [FILES] are the names of the files you want to generate checksums for. If you want to generate checksums for multiple files, you can specify them all at once, separated by spaces.

Once you run the command, b3sum will generate a hash (a long string of characters) for each file you specified. The hash is generated by applying the BLAKE3 algorithm to the contents of the file. The resulting hash can be used to verify the integrity of the file - if the file is modified in any way, the hash will change. 

Overall, b3sum is a useful tool for verifying file integrity and detecting any unintentional changes that may have occurred. 

## tldr 
 
> Command line utility for calculating BLAKE3 hashes.
> It is similar to Coreutils tools like b2sum or md5sum.
> More information: <https://github.com/BLAKE3-team/BLAKE3/tree/master/b3sum>.

- Calculate the BLAKE3 checksum for a file:

`b3sum {{path/to/file}}`

- Calculate BLAKE3 checksums for multiple files:

`b3sum {{path/to/file1}} {{path/to/file2}}`

- Calculate the BLAKE3 checksum from `stdin`:

`{{some_command}} | b3sum`

- Create a file of BLAKE3 checksums:

`b3sum {{path/to/file}} > {{path/to/file.b3}}`

- Read and verify a file of BLAKE3 checksums:

`b3sum --check {{path/to/file.b3}}`
