# c99 
## chatgpt 
The command "c99" is used to compile programs written in the C programming language. 

Here's a breakdown of the command: 

- "c99" is the name of the compiler executable.
- When you run the command "c99" followed by the name of a C source file, it will compile that file into an executable program that can be run on your computer. For example, if you have a file called "myprogram.c", you can compile it with the command "c99 myprogram.c".
- The "c99" compiler is typically used for C programs that conform to the C99 standard, which is a set of rules for how the C language should be used. 
- When you run "c99", it will typically produce a number of warnings and errors if there are issues with your code. You can use these messages to identify and fix problems with your program. 
- You can also pass a number of options to the "c99" command to customize the way your program is compiled. For example, you can specify the output file name with the "-o" option, or you can enable additional warnings with the "-Wall" option. 

Overall, the "c99" command is an essential tool for developing and compiling C programs on your computer. 

## tldr 
 
> Compiles C programs according to the ISO C standard.
> More information: <https://manned.org/c99>.

- Compile source file(s) and create an executable:

`c99 {{file.c}}`

- Compile source file(s) and create an executable with a custom name:

`c99 -o {{executable_name}} {{file.c}}`

- Compile source file(s) and create object file(s):

`c99 -c {{file.c}}`

- Compile source file(s), link with object file(s), and create an executable:

`c99 {{file.c}} {{file.o}}`
