# dvc freeze 
## chatgpt 
The `dvc freeze` command is a Data Version Control (DVC) command that is used to freeze the contents of a DVC repository in order to create a reproducible environment for sharing and collaborative work. When you use the `dvc freeze` command, it creates a `requirements.txt` file that contains a list of all the dependencies that are required to reproduce the same environment that you have frozen.

The `requirements.txt` file generated by the `dvc freeze` command includes the following information:

- The name of each dependency.
- The version number of each dependency.
- Any other dependencies that are required by the listed dependencies.

This file can be used by others to recreate the exact same environment that was used to create the frozen version of the project. This is useful for collaborative work or when sharing a project with others.

To use the `dvc freeze` command, you must first initialize a DVC repository and create a `dvc.lock` file using the `dvc lock` command. Once you have done this, you can use the `dvc freeze` command to freeze the environment and create the `requirements.txt` file. 

Overall, the `dvc freeze` command is a powerful tool that helps to create reliable and reproducible environments, making it easier for others to collaborate and work with your projects. 

## tldr 
 
> Freeze stages in the DVC pipeline.
> This prevents DVC from tracking changes in stage dependencies and re-execution until unfreeze.
> See also `dvs unfreeze`.
> More information: <https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/freeze>.

- Freeze 1 or more specified stages:

`dvc freeze {{stage_name_a}} [{{stage_name_b}} ...]`
