# jekyll 
## chatgpt 
Jekyll is a command-line tool used to create static websites. It is a popular tool among developers and bloggers who wish to build websites using simple and straightforward methods. Here are the basic commands that can be used with Jekyll:

1. jekyll new [SITE_NAME]: This command is used to create a new Jekyll project. By running this command, a new directory with the name of [SITE_NAME] will be created at the current location. The command also creates a basic folder structure with a set of default files and folders.

2. jekyll serve: This command is used to start a local web server that serves your Jekyll project. The web server serves your site locally so that you can preview the content of your site before publishing it live. By default, the server listens for requests on port 4000.

3. jekyll build: This command is used to generate your website. When you run this command, Jekyll processes your site's source files, processes any plugins or templates, and generates the final static files which can be deployed to a web server. The output files are generated in the _site folder.

4. jekyll doctor: This command is used to check the installation and configuration of Jekyll on your system. It helps you to verify whether all the files and dependencies are correctly installed or not.

5. jekyll clean: This command is used to remove all generated files located within the _site directory. It removes all the files generated by the Jekyll build command.

6. jekyll new-theme [THEME_NAME]: This command is used to create a new Jekyll theme. By running this command, a new Jekyll project will be created that serves as the base for the theme. It generates some basic files and folders that can be customized to create your own theme.

These are the most commonly used Jekyll commands that are essential for building static websites using Jekyll. 

## tldr 
 
> A simple, blog-aware, static site generator.
> More information: <https://jekyllrb.com/docs/usage/>.

- Generate a development server that will run at http://localhost:4000/:

`jekyll serve`

- Enable incremental regeneration:

`jekyll serve --incremental`

- Enable verbose output:

`jekyll serve --verbose`

- Generate the current directory into `./_site`:

`jekyll build`

- Clean the site (removes site output and `cache` directory) without building:

`jekyll clean`
