# k6 
## chatgpt 
"k6" is a command-line tool used for load testing web applications and APIs. It is based on the JavaScript programming language and allows developers to write test scripts in JavaScript to simulate real user behavior and measure the performance and scalability of their applications.

When executed, the "k6" command will start the k6 runtime environment and allow the user to run their test scripts from the command line interface. The command supports a range of options and arguments that can be used to configure the test environment and customize the test scenario.

Some common options and arguments include:

- "vus" (virtual users): specifies the number of virtual users to simulate during the test.
- "duration": sets the duration of the test run in seconds, minutes or hours.
- "rps" (requests per second): sets the maximum number of requests to make per second.
- "stage": defines the test scenario in multiple stages with different numbers of virtual users and/or RPS.

Overall, the "k6" command is a powerful and flexible tool for load testing web applications and APIs in a variety of real-world scenarios. 

## tldr 
 
> Open source load testing tool and SaaS for engineering teams.
> More information: <https://k6.io>.

- Run load test locally:

`k6 run {{script.js}}`

- Run load test locally with a given number of virtual users and duration:

`k6 run --vus {{10}} --duration {{30s}} {{script.js}}`

- Run load test locally with a given environment variable:

`k6 run -e {{HOSTNAME=example.com}} {{script.js}}`

- Run load test locally using InfluxDB to store results:

`k6 run --out influxdb={{http://localhost:8086/k6db}} {{script.js}}`

- Run load test locally and discard response bodies (significantly faster):

`k6 run --discard-response-bodies {{script.js}}`

- Run load test locally using the base JavaScript compatibility mode (significantly faster):

`k6 run --compatibility-mode=base {{script.js}}`

- Log in to cloud service using secret token:

`k6 login cloud --token {{secret}}`

- Run load test on cloud infrastructure:

`k6 cloud {{script.js}}`
