# kubectl logs 
## chatgpt 
The kubectl logs command is used to view the logs generated by a container running in a Kubernetes pod. 

Here's a breakdown of the command:

- kubectl: This is the command-line tool used to interact with and manage Kubernetes clusters.
- logs: This is the subcommand that instructs kubectl to retrieve the log output generated by the container specified in the pod.
- [pod-name]: This is the name of the pod that contains the container for which you want to view the logs.
- [-c container-name]: This option is used to specify the name of the container whose logs you want to see. If you have only one container running in the pod, you don't need to specify this option.
- [-f]: This option is used to stream the logs in real-time as they are generated. The command will not exit until you interrupt it.
- [-p]: This option is used to view the logs for a previous instance of the container. This can be helpful if you need to debug a container that was terminated due to an error or other issue.
- [--tail n]: This option is used to view the last 'n' lines of logs. By default, kubectl logs will show logs generated since the container started running. 

Overall, kubectl logs is a powerful tool that allows Kubernetes cluster administrators to monitor and troubleshoot issues with containers running in pods. 

## tldr 
 
> Show logs for containers in a pod.
> More information: <https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#logs>.

- Show logs for a single-container pod:

`kubectl logs {{pod_name}}`

- Show logs for a specified container in a pod:

`kubectl logs --container {{container_name}} {{pod_name}}`

- Show logs for all containers in a pod:

`kubectl logs --all-containers={{true}} {{pod_name}}`

- Stream pod logs:

`kubectl logs --follow {{pod_name}}`

- Stream logs for a specified container in a pod:

`kubectl logs --follow --container {{container_name}} {{pod_name}}`

- Show pod logs newer than a relative time like `10s`, `5m`, or `1h`:

`kubectl logs --since={{relative_time}} {{pod_name}}`

- Show the 10 most recent logs in a pod:

`kubectl logs --tail={{10}} {{pod_name}}`
