# ld 
## chatgpt 
The ld command is a Unix/Linux command that stands for "linker" and is used to link object files and libraries together to produce an executable file. The linker combines multiple object files generated by the compiler and statically linked libraries needed by the program, and generates a single executable binary file that can be loaded and executed by the operating system.

The ld command takes several arguments, including:

- -o outputfile: specifies the name of the output file that the linker will generate.
- objectfile(s): specifies one or more object files that will be linked together.
- linker script: specifies a custom linker script to use instead of the default linker script.
- library(-l) flag: specifies a library that should be linked into the program, such as libc or libm.

Some additional options that can be passed to the ld command include:

- -L: specifies a directory where the linker should look for libraries to link.
- -nostdlib: tells the linker not to link standard system libraries, allowing the programmer to provide their own.
- -r: creates a relocatable object file, which can be linked at a later time.

The ld command is typically used as part of the build process for a software project, either manually or through a build system like Makefile or CMake. Understanding how to use the ld command is an important skill for anyone developing software on Unix-like operating systems. 

## tldr 
 
> Link object files together.
> More information: <https://sourceware.org/binutils/docs-2.38/ld.html>.

- Link a specific object file with no dependencies into an executable:

`ld {{path/to/file.o}} --output {{path/to/output_executable}}`

- Link two object files together:

`ld {{path/to/file1.o}} {{path/to/file2.o}} --output {{path/to/output_executable}}`

- Dynamically link an x86_64 program to glibc (file paths change depending on the system):

`ld --output {{path/to/output_executable}} --dynamic-linker /lib/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2 /lib/crt1.o /lib/crti.o -lc {{path/to/file.o}} /lib/crtn.o`
