# luac 
## chatgpt 
The command "luac" is used to compile Lua source code files into Lua bytecode files. The Lua bytecode files can be executed directly by the Lua interpreter, without the need to first load and parse the source code. 

When the "luac" command is executed, it takes one or more Lua source code files as input and generates a corresponding Lua bytecode file for each source file. The generated bytecode files have the same name as the source files, but with the file extension changed to ".luac".

The syntax for the "luac" command is:

    luac [options] [filename ...]

where "filename" is the name of the Lua source code file to be compiled, and "options" are various command-line options that can modify the behavior of the "luac" command. Some common options include:

- "-o outputfile": Specifies the name of the output Lua bytecode file. By default, "luac" generates a bytecode file with the same name as the source code file.
- "-s": Strips debug information from the generated bytecode file, making it smaller and faster to execute.
- "-l": Produces a listing of the bytecode instructions generated from the source code, along with the corresponding line numbers in the source file.
- "-p": Parses the source code file and prints any syntax errors or warnings, but does not generate bytecode.

Overall, the "luac" command is a useful tool for Lua developers who want to distribute their Lua scripts without revealing their source code. By compiling the Lua code into bytecode, it's more difficult for others to read or modify the script. 

## tldr 
 
> Lua bytecode compiler.
> More information: <https://www.lua.org>.

- Compile a Lua source file to Lua bytecode:

`luac -o {{byte_code.luac}} {{source.lua}}`

- Do not include debug symbols in the output:

`luac -s -o {{byte_code.luac}} {{source.lua}}`
