# m4 
## chatgpt 
`m4` is a command-line macro processor that is used to process text files by expanding macros, which are predefined text strings that can be replaced by other text. `m4` is often used to generate configuration files, source code, or documentation, by processing input files that contain macros with values provided by the user.

Here are some common options for the `m4` command:

- `-Dname=value`: Define a macro with the specified value. This is equivalent to `#define name value` in C programming.
- `-I directory`: Add the specified directory to the search path for included files. Included files are typically used to define macros that are used in multiple files.
- `-s`: Enable strict mode, which causes `m4` to report errors for undefined macros or other syntax errors.
- `-E`: Disable macro expansion, which is useful when debugging macro definitions or when you want to see the raw output of `m4`.

Here is an example of using `m4` to process a file with macros:

```
$ cat input.txt
The current date is __DATE__.

$ m4 -D__DATE__=`date +%F` input.txt
The current date is 2022-08-08.
```

In this example, `m4` is used to define the `__DATE__` macro with the current date, which is obtained using the `date` command. The output of `m4` substitutes the `__DATE__` macro with the current date, resulting in the string "The current date is 2022-08-08." 

## tldr 
 
> Macro processor.
> More information: <https://www.gnu.org/software/m4>.

- Process macros in a file:

`m4 {{path/to/file}}`

- Define a macro before processing files:

`m4 -D{{macro_name}}={{macro_value}} {{path/to/file}}`
