# meshlabserver 
## chatgpt 
MeshLabServer is a command-line interface (CLI) tool for manipulating and processing 3D triangular meshes. It is a version of the MeshLab software, designed specifically for use in scripting and automated workflows.

The MeshLabServer command is used to run MeshLabServer from the command-line. It is used to specify the input and output files and options that control the processing.

Here is the basic syntax of the command:

```meshlabserver [options] -i inputfile.obj -o outputfile.obj```

`options` specifies any additional processing options, which are used to control how MeshLabServer processes the input mesh. These can include filters, algorithms, and other processing operations.

`-i inputfile.obj` specifies the input file to be processed. The file should be in OBJ format.

`-o outputfile.obj` specifies the output file to be generated by MeshLabServer. This file will also be in OBJ format.

Some common processing options and filters that can be used with MeshLabServer include:

- `-s script.mlx` specifies a script file to apply to the input mesh. This can be used to apply a series of filters or operations in a specific order.

- `-om vn` specifies the output format for vertex normals. vn can be one of flat, pervertex, or none.

- `-om fm` specifies the output format for face normals. fm can be one of flat, pervertex, or none.

- `-m t` specifies a target number of triangles for the output mesh. MeshLabServer will try to reduce the input mesh to this number of triangles.

Overall, MeshLabServer is a powerful tool for processing 3D meshes, providing a wide range of options for manipulating and transforming the geometry of these objects. 

## tldr 
 
> Command-line interface for the MeshLab 3D mesh processing software.
> More information: <https://manned.org/meshlabserver>.

- Convert an STL file to an OBJ file:

`meshlabserver -i {{input.stl}} -o {{output.obj}}`

- Convert a WRL file to a OFF file, including the vertex and face normals in the output mesh:

`meshlabserver -i {{input.wrl}} -o {{output.off}} -om vn fn`

- Dump a list of all the available processing filters into a file:

`meshlabserver -d {{path/to/file}}`

- Process a 3D file using a filter script created in the MeshLab GUI (Filters > Show current filter script > Save Script):

`meshlabserver -i {{input.ply}} -o {{output.ply}} -s {{filter_script.mlx}}`

- Process a 3D file using a filter script, writing the output of the filters into a log file:

`meshlabserver -i {{input.x3d}} -o {{output.x3d}} -s {{filter_script.mlx}} -l {{logfile}}`
