# patch 
## chatgpt 
The "patch" command is used in Linux/Unix systems to apply changes to a file or a set of files. It works by using a "patch file" which contains the modifications that need to be made to the original file(s). The patch file typically specifies which lines of the file(s) need to be replaced, added or removed, and what the new contents should be.

The syntax for the patch command is:

patch [options] [original file(s)]

The options available for the patch command include:

- -p: specify the number of levels to strip from the path names in the patch file
- -N: apply patches that are newer than the original file(s)
- -R: reverse the patch (i.e. unapply the changes)
- -i: specify the location of the patch file

After the patch command is executed, the changes specified in the patch file will be applied to the original file(s). If the patch cannot be applied successfully, the patch command will display an error message. It is important to note that the patch command can only be used for text files, not binary files. 

## tldr 
 
> Patch a file (or files) with a diff file.
> Note that diff files should be generated by the `diff` command.
> More information: <https://manned.org/patch>.

- Apply a patch using a diff file (filenames must be included in the diff file):

`patch < {{patch.diff}}`

- Apply a patch to a specific file:

`patch {{path/to/file}} < {{patch.diff}}`

- Patch a file writing the result to a different file:

`patch {{path/to/input_file}} -o {{path/to/output_file}} < {{patch.diff}}`

- Apply a patch to the current directory:

`patch -p1 < {{patch.diff}}`

- Apply the reverse of a patch:

`patch -R < {{patch.diff}}`
