# trap 
## chatgpt 
The `trap` command is used to specify actions to be taken by the shell when particular conditions occur. It allows the shell to catch signals sent to the process and take action based on the specific signal received. 

The syntax for the `trap` command is as follows:

```
trap action signal
```

- `action`: The action to be taken when the specified signal is received. This can be a shell command, a function definition, or a special value.
- `signal`: The signal to be caught by the trap. This can be either a signal name (e.g. SIGINT) or a signal number (e.g. 2).

When a signal is received by the process, the shell will execute the action specified in the trap command for that signal. The most common use of `trap` is to catch the `SIGINT` signal (generated by pressing Ctrl-C in the terminal) and perform an action (like exiting the program) instead of allowing the default behavior (terminating the process).

For example, to catch the `SIGINT` signal and execute a shell command `echo "Interrupt signal received!"`, the `trap` command can be used as follows:

```
trap 'echo "Interrupt signal received!"' SIGINT
```

Now, whenever the `SIGINT` signal is received, the shell will execute the command `echo "Interrupt signal received!"`.

Other signals that can be caught using `trap` include `SIGHUP`, `SIGQUIT`, `SIGTERM`, and `SIGKILL`, among others. 

## tldr 
 
> Automatically execute commands after receiving signals by processes or the operating system.
> Can be used to perform cleanups for interruptions by the user or other actions.
> More information: <https://manned.org/trap>.

- List available signals to set traps for:

`trap -l`

- List active traps for the current shell:

`trap -p`

- Set a trap to execute commands when one or more signals are detected:

`trap 'echo "Caught signal {{SIGHUP}}"' {{SIGHUP}}`

- Remove active traps:

`trap - {{SIGHUP}} {{SIGINT}}`
