# mpg123 
## chatgpt 
mpg123 is a command-line program used to play MP3 audio files. It is a lightweight and highly efficient program that can be used to play back MP3 files from the command line or from a script. The following are the details and options available with the mpg123 command:

Syntax: 

mpg123 [ options ] [ filename(s) ]

Options: 

-# or --frames : specifies how many frames to play. For example, -#10 will play ten frames.
-c, --stdout : sends the output to standard output for redirection to other programs
-d, --audiodevice : sets the audio output device.
-f, --format : specifies the output sample format
-h or --help : displays help message and exits
-m, --mono : plays the file in mono mode
-n or --null : disables output
-r, --rate : specifies output sample rate
-s or --skip : skips a specific number of frames
-v, --verbose : displays additional information

Usage: 

To use mpg123, simply open up a terminal or command prompt and type "mpg123" followed by the name of the MP3 file you want to play. For example:

mpg123 myfile.mp3

This will start playing the file in the terminal. If you want to play a different file, simply replace "myfile.mp3" with the name of the file you want to play.

Overall, mpg123 is a useful and efficient command-line program for playing MP3 files. 

## tldr 
 
> Console MPEG audio player.
> More information: <https://manned.org/mpg123>.

- Play the specified mp3 files:

`mpg123 {{path/to/file1.mp3 path/to/file2.mp3 ...}}`

- Play the mp3 from `stdin`:

`cat {{file.mp3}} | mpg123 -`

- Jump forward to the next song:

`f`

- Jump back to the beginning for the song:

`b`

- Stop or replay the current file:

`s`

- Fast forward:

`.`

- Quit:

`q`
