# po4a-gettextize 
## chatgpt 
The `po4a-gettextize` command is a part of the PO4A package which is a set of tools designed to ease the translation of documentation. The function of the `po4a-gettextize` command is to extract translatable texts from various input files and generate a .pot file that can be used for translation.

The `.pot` file generated by `po4a-gettextize` contains all the strings that require translation. The primary purpose of this file is to create .po files that will be used for translating the texts in various languages.

The `po4a-gettextize` command works by scanning the input file and locating patterns that match common translatable text such as phrases with quotation marks or comments that include translatable text. Once these patterns are identified, the command generates a .pot file that contains all the extracted translatable text.

In summary, the `po4a-gettextize` command is a tool that helps streamline the process of translating documentation. It identifies translatable text in input files and generates a .pot file that can be used for translations. 

## tldr 
 
> Convert a file to a PO file.
> More information: <https://po4a.org/man/man1/po4a-gettextize.1.php>.

- Convert a text file to PO file:

`po4a-gettextize --format {{text}} --master {{path/to/master.txt}} --po {{path/to/result.po}}`

- Get a list of available formats:

`po4a-gettextize --help-format`

- Convert a text file along with a translated document to a PO file (`-l` option can be provided multiple times):

`po4a-gettextize --format {{text}} --master {{path/to/master.txt}} --localized {{path/to/translated.txt}} --po {{path/to/result.po}}`
