# wpa_passphrase 
## chatgpt 
wpa_passphrase is a Linux command that generates an encrypted pre-shared key (PSK) for Wi-Fi networks that use the Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) protocol, such as WPA-PSK or WPA2-PSK. The PSK is a long string of characters that is used to authenticate and encrypt wireless network traffic.

The syntax of the wpa_passphrase command is as follows:

wpa_passphrase [ssid] [passphrase]

The ssid parameter is the name of the Wi-Fi network (also known as the Service Set Identifier or SSID). The passphrase parameter is a simple text password that will be used to generate the PSK.

When you execute the command, it will encrypt the passphrase using the SSID as a salt, which helps to prevent dictionary attacks. The resulting PSK output is a long string of randomly generated characters that is suitable for use as a WPA-PSK or WPA2-PSK key.

To use the PSK generated by the wpa_passphrase command, you will need to add it to the configuration file of your Wi-Fi network adapter. This can usually be done by editing the /etc/network/interfaces file (for Ubuntu) or the /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf file (for other Linux distributions). You can then connect to the network using the PSK as the authentication key. 

## tldr 
 
> Generate a WPA-PSK key from an ASCII passphrase for a given SSID.
> More information: <https://manned.org/wpa_passphrase.1>.

- Compute and display the WPA-PSK key for a given SSID reading the passphrase from `stdin`:

`wpa_passphrase {{SSID}}`

- Compute and display WPA-PSK key for a given SSID specifying the passphrase as an argument:

`wpa_passphrase {{SSID}} {{passphrase}}`
